[Music]
all right so here's the situation you're
walking home after a night out with
friends that's when you hear footsteps
behind you you turn around to see
someone walking toward you you think to
yourself are they following me
if you're ever in this scenario here's
what you do
start walking slightly faster if you
hear the person's footsteps catching up
with you then your suspicions are
correct try to make turns three or four
right turns are enough to bring you back
to your starting position
it'll confirm that the person is after
you since they have no reason to circle
the area and you'll get a chance to
disappear the moment you make a turn
start running until they lose sight of
you if some people are walking by you
can loudly say hey and pretend they're
your friends tell them someone is
following you and ask if they can walk
with you to a more public area until you
find another way home don't go to your
house or apartment when you're being
followed even if the group of people is
offering to help you get there
this pursuer will then know where you
live and might come back later or wait
for you to leave the house but let's
assume nobody is on the street and this
figure is still behind you if you're
wearing a hoodie tuck the hood into your
sweater to hide it if your hair is up in
a ponytail or bun let it down as you
walk it'll be harder for your follower
to grab your entire set of hair or pull
your clothes if they have nothing to
hold on to now you must lose them if
you've turned off a busy road earlier
you can pretend you've forgotten
something by patting your pockets say
out loud ah where is my wallet as you do
so
start walking even faster in the
opposite direction this person will be
less likely to pursue someone who's
running toward a busy street and he
probably won't run after someone who
doesn't have their
never say you've lost your keys they'll
come in handy later
don't take your phone out and start
browsing or texting the light from the
screen will make it harder for your eyes
to adjust in the dark
that and looking through your phone will
slow you down observe your surroundings
and learn your exact location
as you walk find out the street name
look at the house numbers and what
stores or buildings are around you'll
need these details later if you can't
get away and the side street or alley
you're on seems endless turn around and
look at your follower look at their
clothes eyes height and age hmm black
hoodie navy blue pants green baseball
cap got it then you can give an accurate
description to the authorities doing
that will also send a clear message to
this person yup I see you people with
bad intentions rely on the element of
surprise with a long hearty eye contact
you'll take that away from them it'll
catch them off guard and they won't see
you as a target stand confident with
your shoulders back chin up don't look
like you're lost or nervous you'll give
off a I know what I'm doing vibe they
don't like that let's say the green hat
guy is brave and decides to approach you
and ask for something keep consistent
eye contact if they ask you for
directions don't look down or away from
them to reach for your phone you'll
become distracted just tell them you
don't know the way they're asking is
suspicious enough who doesn't have a
phone with maps these days if you're
carrying books or shopping bags be ready
to drop them as soon as you feel
something's off holding onto heavy items
will slow you down now you'll need your
keys place them in your palm with the
keys teeth sticking out through your
fist if worse comes to worst you'll have
something pointy to defend yourself with
so you can get away don't stay quiet
make a fuss as you try to leave and yell
fire instead of help people react to
that word more often than a call for
general help Plus nobody wants to chase
someone screaming at the top of their
lungs and drawing attention to
themselves if they're following you from
a further distance then get your phone
out and call the police that's when you
need to know all those details about the
street you're on your location and the
buildings stay on the phone with the
dispatcher and follow their instructions
another possible scenario is someone
following you in public
if that happens try to get to a grocery
store or anywhere you can lose yourself
in the crowd if your jacket is a
different color from your shirt take
your coat off it'll be harder for this
person to identify you if you walk into
a restaurant or coffee shop and your
follower is determined they'll walk in
and wait for you one option is to go
straight to the bathroom and stay there
for five to ten minutes
they might get tired and leave if you
get out and they're still there get in
line order something and casually let
one of the staff members know you're
being followed they'll probably do
something and keep an eye out for you
grab your order and sit down get on your
phone and let your family or friends
know where you are so they can come and
pick you up or keep you company while
you wait try these tricks yawn if the
person yawns to it means they've been
watching you yawning is visually
contagious pretend to look at your watch
if they check there's two they've got
their eyes on you we instinctively mimic
the person we have our attention on to
trick them leave the cafe and walk a
little bit down the street until they
lose sight of you then as soon as they
come out walk back in to the coffee shop
they'll have no reason to walk back in
with you unless they were following you
when someone comes to pick you up ask
the staff to guide you to the back exit
just to be safe avoid walking alone if
you do keep the busy streets and always
be aware of your surroundings you know
all that stuff that lies beyond your
phone screen just messing with you Hey
bottom line I hope nothing like this
ever happens to you but being prepared
for it gives you confidence like nothing
else hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other great videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life